sentinel: update mock generation documentation (#753)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/source/docs/enterprise/sentinel/mock.html.md

sensitive data. Treat this data with care, and avoid generating mocks with live
sensitive data if at all possible. To help secure access to this information,
[write
permission](/docs/enterprise/users-teams-organizations/permissions.html#write)
on the workspace is necessary to generate mock data.

## Generating Mock Data Using the UI

Mock data can be generated using the UI by expanding the plan status section of
the run page, and clicking on the **Download Sentinel mocks** button.

![sentinel mock generate ui](/assets/images/guides/sentinel/download-mocks.png)

For more information on creating a run, see [Running
Terraform](/docs/enterprise/getting-started/runs.html) in the [Getting
Started](/docs/enterprise/getting-started/index.html) guide.

If the button is not visible, then the plan is ineligible for mock generation or
the user doesn't have the necessary permissions. See [Mock Data
Availability](#mock-data-availability) for more details.

## Generating Mock Data Using the API

Mock data can also be created with the [Plan Export
API](/docs/enterprise/api/plan-exports.html).

Multiple steps are required for mock generation. The export process is

> asynchronous, so monitoring the request is required to know when the data is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
asynchronous, so you must monitor the request to know when the data is generated and
```

> available for download after requesting its generation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
available for download.
```

  }
}
```

For `sentinel test`, the paths are relative to the specific test configuration
file. For example, the contents of `pass.json`, asserting that the result of the
`main` rule was `true`, would be:

```
{
  "mock": {
    "tfconfig": "../../testdata/mock-tfconfig.sentinel",
    "tfplan": "../../testdata/mock-tfplan.sentinel",
    "tfstate": "../../testdata/mock-tfstate.sentinel"
  },
  "test": {
    "main": true
  }
}
```

## Mock Data Availability

The following factors can affect your ability to generate mock data:

* You do not have [write
  access](/docs/enterprise/users-teams-organizations/permissions.html#write) to
  the workspace. This is to protect the possibly sensitive data which can be
  produced via mock generation.
* The run has not progressed past the planning stage, or did not create a plan
  successfully.
* The run has been in a terminal state, such as applied or discarded, longer
  than seven days. At this point, the data necessary to generate the mocks is no
  longer available.

If a plan cannot have its mock data exported due to any of these reasons, the
**Download Sentinel mocks** button within the plan status section of the UI will
not be visible.

> -> Only the plan needs to be successful for a run to be eligible for mock

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-> **Note:** Only the plan needs to be successful for a run to be eligible for mock
```

---
layout: enterprise2
page_title: "Mocking Terraform Sentinel Data - Sentinel - Terraform Enterprise"
sidebar_current: "docs-enterprise2-sentinel-mock"
---

# Mocking Terraform Sentinel Data

Sentinel in Terraform Enterprise works with a very diverse range of data that is
hard to predict the general structure of. Therefore, it's highly encouraged that
you test your policies extensively before deploying them within your

> organization.

Reviewer 2: This intro paragraph doesn't do much for me, and some of it is repeated below. I think you could omit it entirely and add "test your policies extensively before deploying them within your organization" to the next paragraph, and restructure it a little.

Author: Restructured, removed this paragraph, took the last sense as recommended, added it to the second paragraph, and then split that up.

An important part of this process is mocking the data that you wish your
policies to operate on. Due to the highly variable structure of data that can be

> produced by an individual Terraform configuration, we provide you with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
produced by an individual Terraform configuration, Terraform Enterprise provides the
```

> ability to generate mock data off of existing configurations. This can be of use

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ability to generate mock data from existing configurations. This can be used to create
```

> when you need sample data for a new policy, or data to reproduce issues in an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sample data for a new policy, or data to reproduce issues in an
```

Reviewer 2: these also go together :)

existing one.

Testing policies is done using the [Sentinel
Simulator](https://docs.hashicorp.com/sentinel/commands/). More general
information on testing Sentinel policies can be found in the [Testing
section](https://docs.hashicorp.com/sentinel/writing/testing) of the [Sentinel
runtime documentation](https://docs.hashicorp.com/sentinel).

~> **Be careful!** Mock data generated by Terraform Enterprise directly exposes
any and all data within the configuration, plan, and state, including any

> sensitive data held within. Treat this data with care, and avoid generating

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
sensitive data. Treat this data with care, and avoid generating
```

mocks with live sensitive data if at all possible. To help secure access to this
information, [write
permission](/docs/enterprise/users-teams-organizations/permissions.html#write)
on the workspace is necessary to generate mock data.

## Generating Mock Data Using the UI

Mock data can be generated using the UI by expanding the plan status section of

> any run page, and clicking on the **Download Sentinel mocks** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the run page, and clicking on the **Download Sentinel mocks** button.
```

![sentinel mock generate ui](/assets/images/guides/sentinel/download-mocks.png)

For more information on creating a run, see [Running
Terraform](/docs/enterprise/getting-started/runs.html) in the [Getting
Started](/docs/enterprise/getting-started/index.html) guide.

> If the button is not visible, then the user or the plan is ineligible for mock

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the button is not visible, then the plan is ineligible for mock
```

> generation. See [Mock Data Availability](#mock-data-availability) for more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
generation or the user doesn't have the necessary permissions. See [Mock Data Availability](#mock-data-availability) for more
```

details.

## Generating Mock Data Using the API

> Mock data is a feature of the [Plan Export

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mock data can also be created with the [Plan Export
```

API](/docs/enterprise/api/plan-exports.html).

> Multiple steps are required to perform mock generation. The export process is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Multiple steps are required for mock generation. The export process is
```

> asynchronous, so monitoring the request is necessary to know when the data is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
asynchronous, so monitoring the request is required to know when the data is
```

> available for download after requesting a generation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
available for download after requesting its generation.
```

> * Get the plan ID for the run that you want to generate the mock for. You can

Reviewer 2: These steps are ordered, so they should have numbers.

Author: Done!

> * Get the plan ID for the run that you want to generate the mock for. You can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Get the plan ID for the run that you want to generate the mock for
```

>   see the plan ID for a run by [getting the run

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by [getting the run
```

Reviewer 2: should explain which part of the details is the plan id here

Author: Done!

  details](/docs/enterprise/api/run.html#get-run-details).
* [Request a plan
  export](/docs/enterprise/api/plan-exports.html#create-a-plan-export) using the

>   discovered plan ID. You will want to supply a Sentinel export type, such as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  discovered plan ID. Supply the Sentinel export type
```

Reviewer 2: for now, just the one type, right?

Author: Yeah, just the one type. Change looks good!

  `sentinel-mock-bundle-v0`.
* Monitor the export request by [viewing the plan
  export](/docs/enterprise/api/plan-exports.html#show-a-plan-export). When the

>   status has reached `finished`, the export data is ready for download.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  status is `finished`, the data is ready for download.
```

> * Finally, you can [download the export

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Finally, [download the export
```

  data](/docs/enterprise/api/plan-exports.html#download-exported-plan-data). You

>   have up to an hour to fetch the data after an export request has been made,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  have up to an hour to fetch the data after an export request has been made.
```
Is it after request, or after generation, that the hour starts?

Author: After generation. I've clarified.

>   after which the data is discarded and generation must be requested again.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  After that, the mock data expires and must be re-generated.
```

## Using Mock Data

> Mock data is generally supplied as a bundled tarball, containing 3 files:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mock data is supplied as a bundled tarball, containing 3 files:
```

```
mock-tfconfig.sentinel # tfconfig mock data
mock-tfplan.sentinel   # tfplan mock data
mock-tfstate.sentinel  # tfstate mock data
```

> It's advised that these be stored in a subdirectory of the repository holding

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The recommended placement of the files is in a subdirectory of the repository holding
```

> your policies, to ensure that they do not interfere with `sentinel test`. While

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
your policies, so they don't interfere with `sentinel test`. While
```

the test data is Sentinel code, it's not a policy and will produce errors if
evaluated like one.

```
.
├── foo.sentinel
├── sentinel.json
├── test
│   └── foo
│       ├── fail.json
│       └── pass.json
└── testdata
    ├── mock-tfconfig.sentinel
    ├── mock-tfplan.sentinel
    └── mock-tfstate.sentinel
```

Each configuration that needs access to the mock should reference the mock data

> files within the `mock` block in the specific Sentinel configuration file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
files within the `mock` block in the Sentinel configuration file.
```

For `sentinel apply`, this path is relative to the working directory. Assuming
you always run this command from the repository root, the `sentinel.json`
configuration file would look like:

```
{
  "mock": {
    "tfconfig": "testdata/mock-tfconfig.sentinel",
    "tfplan": "testdata/mock-tfplan.sentinel",
    "tfstate": "testdata/mock-tfstate.sentinel"
  }
}
```

For `sentinel test`, the paths are relative to the specific test configuration
file. For example, the contents of `pass.json`, asserting that the result of the

> `main` rule was `true`, would read:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`main` rule was `true`, would be:
```

```
{
  "mock": {
    "tfconfig": "../../testdata/mock-tfconfig.sentinel",
    "tfplan": "../../testdata/mock-tfplan.sentinel",
    "tfstate": "../../testdata/mock-tfstate.sentinel"
  },
  "test": {
    "main": true
  }
}
```

## Mock Data Availability

The following factors can affect your ability to generate mock data:

* You do not have [write
  access](/docs/enterprise/users-teams-organizations/permissions.html#write) to
  the workspace. This is to protect the possibly sensitive data which can be

>   procured via mock generation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  produced via mock generation.
```

* The run has not progressed past the planning stage, or did not create a plan
  successfully.
* The run has been in a terminal state, such as applied or discarded, longer

>   than seven days. At this point, the data necessary to generate the data is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  than seven days. At this point, the data necessary to generate the plan export is
```

Author: I want to keep the context in the fields outside of the API focused on mock generation, so I will probably change "plan export" to "mock data" here again, to be specific.

Author: Changed it to "mocks" which reads better - seeing as you probably re-worded it to get rid of the stutter 😄

>   discarded and no longer available for generation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  no longer available.
```

> If a plan cannot have its mock data exported due to any of these reasons, the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If plan data is not available for any of these reasons, the
```

Author: The availability of plan data here is actually one of the things that affects one's ability to do mock generation, along with the necessary ACLs. So I think this is accurate as is.

**Download Sentinel mocks** button within the plan status section of the UI will
not be visible.

> -> Only the plan needs to be successful for it to be eligible for mock

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-> Only the plan needs to be successful for a run to be eligible for mock
```

> generation - if an apply or policy checks fail, the data can still be generated,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
generation - if the apply or the policy checks fail, the data can still be generated,
```

> subject to the 7 day timeout period on the plan data.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as long as it's within the 7 day expiration period.
```
